#summary description of Nagios-Plugin-Siebel-Remote plug-in.

= Introduction =

The plug-in monitors if the Siebel Remote transactions pending to be routed to Siebel Clients number is lower or higher than the thresholds defined by command line options: depending on the values recovered, the output generated to Nagios will take care of the next configured steps.

This plug-in does not the Siebel-Srvrmgr.

= Details =

The plug-in works by using the steps described below:

  # Connect to the configured ODBC DSN in the configuration file.
  # Execute a query (SELECT only) to the database to recover the number of pending transactions.
  # Compare the returned values with the thresholds defined by the command line parameters.
  # Returns to standard output a string in a format expected by Nagios
  # Based on the returned string Nagios server will proceed as configured.

== Setup ==

The plug-in uses a configuration file that looks like this:

<code language="ini">
timeout = 15
[ODBC]
dsn = dbi:ODBC:FOOBAR
user = FOO
password = BAR
</code>

timeout parameter is the value, in seconds, that the program should wait to connect and recover data from the data base defined in the ODBC DSN: after that, the plug-in execution is aborted with a UNKNONW status to Nagios.

The values FOOBAR (the ODBC DSN to be used), FOO and BAR are the values that you want to change for ODBC connection.

The Nagios plug-in needs to have some Perl distributions installed (see Makefile.PL) from CPAN and, of course, need to have installed Perl (any distribution should do it) with the minimum version being 5.16.

The plug-in can be executed by Nagios by using three methods:

  * Directly from the Nagios servers.
  * Using the NSC client to communicate with a Microsoft Windows computer/server.
  * Using NRPE client to to communicate with a Linux computer/server.

In any case, besides the Perl interpreter and distributions, an ODBC configuration is necessary. This may be changed to pure Perl DBI connections in future releases. 

Considering the flexibility, the suggested setup is to use any other server that is not running the Siebel Enterprise.
